# Sprint 1

- Utilitza per a tots els exercicis Eclipse o IntelliJ.
- No oblidis posar sempre les classes Java dins de packages.
- Es recomana crear per cada exercici un package de la següent manera: n1exercici1, n1exercici2, n2exercici1, etc.
- Pots construir projectes Maven, Gradle o només Java.

## Resources

### Assignment 1: Hercia and polymorphism

**["OOP 101 - Oracle"](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/concepts/index.html)**

1. **["Object?"](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/concepts/object.html)**

   "An object is a software bundle of related state and behavior. Software objects are often used to model the real-world objects that you find in everyday life."

   1. Modularity: The source code for an object can be written and maintained independently of the source code for other objects. Once created, an object can be easily passed around inside the system.
   2. Information-hiding: By interacting only with an object's methods, the details of its internal implementation remain hidden from the outside world.
   3. Code re-use: If an object already exists (perhaps written by another software developer), you can use that object in your program. This allows specialists to implement/test/debug complex, task-specific objects, which you can then trust to run in your own code.
   4. Pluggability and debugging ease: If a particular object turns out to be problematic, you can simply remove it from your application and plug in a different object as its replacement. This is analogous to fixing mechanical problems in the real world. If a bolt breaks, you replace it, not the entire machine.

   [https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/objects.html]

2. **["Class-y"](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/concepts/class.html)**

   "A class is a blueprint or prototype from which objects are created. Created objects from a Class are called ´instances´ of said class."

   public modifier—the field is accessible from all classes. `MyClass.publicField / InstaceMyClass.publicField`
   private modifier—the field is accessible only within its own class. Has to access using a getter/setter pattern.

   In the spirit of encapsulation, it is common to make fields private. This means that they can only be directly accessed from MyClass. We still need access to these values, however. This can be done indirectly by adding public methods that obtain the field values for us. See getter/setter patterns.

   Overloading means that methods can be reddeclared with the same name as long as the signature is the same. Be aware that this should be used sparingly and that java only takes args[] to diff the signatures. So two different signatures with same name and args[] cannot be overloaded by just having a different return type. The compiler cannot tell them appart.

   - [Providing Constructors for Your Classes](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/constructors.html)
     A class contains constructors(can be overloaded or implicitly used - it will use the super's empty args[] or complain if it doesnt. Usually it's Object's super that gets used) that are invoked to create objects from the class blueprint. Constructor declarations look like method declarations—except that they use the name of the class and have no return type. Use `super(args[])` to call the super's constructor.

   - [Passing Info through methods/constructors](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/arguments.html)

   - Returning Classes or Interfaces:
     When a method uses a class name as its return type, the class of the type of the returned object must be either a subclass of, or the exact class of, the return type. Suppose that you have a class hierarchy in which ImaginaryNumber is a subclass of java.lang.Number, which is in turn a subclass of Object.

     MyClass[] removeDupes(MyClass... myClassInstances){
     MyClass[] myClassInstancesDeduped = []
     // Random imp to check wether the instances are duplicates. They are morphologically the same due to being instances of MyClass, but this checks if the instances are equivalent according to the implementation details.
     return myClassInstancesDeduped
     }

     - THIS:
       Within an instance method or a constructor, this is a reference to the current object — the object whose method or constructor is being called. You can refer to any member of the current object from within an instance method or a constructor by using this.
       You can also use this to invoke the constructor of the current class. `this(args[])`. If present, the invocation of another constructor must be the first line in the constructor. You can use this nifty feature to dedupe so much code!

   [https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/index.html]

3. **["Inheritance, you say?"](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/concepts/inheritance.html)**
   1. Object-oriented programming allows classes to inherit commonly used state and behavior from other classes.
   2. In the Java programming language, each class is allowed to have one direct superclass, and each superclass has the potential for an unlimited number of subclasses (One-to-many) rel. from Super.
   3. The syntax for creating a subclass is simple. At the beginning of your class declaration, use the extends keyword, followed by the name of the class to inherit from
   4. Caveat: Visibility. Gotta properly JDoc the SC so you get hints during dev
4. **["Touchy things: Interfaces"](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/concepts/interface.html)**
   In its most common form, an interface is a group of related methods with empty bodies. Useful for wireframing objects.
   ``
   interface Bicycle {
   // wheel revolutions per minute
   void changeCadence(int newValue);

   void changeGear(int newValue);

   void speedUp(int increment);

   void applyBrakes(int decrement);
   }``
   Implementing an interface allows a class to become more formal about the behavior it promises to provide. Interfaces form a contract between the class and the outside world, and this contract is enforced at build time by the compiler. If your class claims to implement an interface, all methods defined by that interface must appear in its source code before the class will successfully compile.

   [https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/IandI/index.html]

5. "J-Packages"

   1. A package is a namespace that organizes a set of related classes and interfaces.
   2. Java's (Standard) Class Lib is referred to as API

6. **Access control(public, private, protected and "default")**
   Access level modifiers determine whether other classes can use a particular field or invoke a particular method. There are two levels of access control:

   - At the top level—public, or package-private (no explicit modifier).
   - At the member level—public, private, protected, or package-private (no explicit modifier).

     A class may be declared with the modifier public, in which case that class is visible to all classes everywhere. If a class has no modifier (the default, also known as package-private), it is visible only within its own package (packages are named groups of related classes — you will learn about them in a later lesson.)

   At the member level, you can also use the public modifier or no modifier (package-private) just as with top-level classes, and with the same meaning. For members, there are two additional access modifiers: private and protected. The private modifier specifies that the member can only be accessed in its own class. The protected modifier specifies that the member can only be accessed within its own package (as with package-private) and, in addition, by a subclass of its class in another package.

   - If other programmers use your class, you want to ensure that errors from misuse cannot happen. Access levels can help you do this.
     Use the most restrictive access level that makes sense for a particular member. Use private unless you have a good reason not to.
     Avoid public fields except for constants. (Many of the examples in the tutorial use public fields. This may help to illustrate some points concisely, but is not recommended for production code.) Public fields tend to link you to a particular implementation and limit your flexibility in changing your code.

7. Initialization of fields(Class and instance fields) [https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/initial.html]

8. [Nested Classes](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/nested.html)

More on Java Classes and Inheritance(you need it to understand keywords and scopes in java)

<https://www.fatalerrors.org/a/code-block-in-java.html>

MOST OF THE CONTENT SUMMARIZED HERE IS PART OF ["The Java Tutorials"](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/index.html)

## Clipboard

<https://roadmap.sh/java>
<https://medium.com/@zknill/how-to-structure-a-java-codebase-bcbb42f40f86>
<https://www.baeldung.com/javadoc>
<https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3680883/whats-the-difference-between-package-and-module>
<https://duckduckgo.com/?q=intelij+java+modules+and+package+hierachy+organizing+project+templates&t=vivaldi&ia=web>
<https://stackoverflow.com/questions/41638654/java-project-folder-structure-in-intellij-idea>

## Cheatsheats

<https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/variablesummary.html>
<https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/opsummary.html>
<https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/flowsummary.html>

### Questions

---

Q: Are static variables references to an address in memory? So every class with `static int count = 0` share the same counter?

A: YES! It refers to where that variable is stored - static ones are stored inside it's class and accessed via the class itself(It seems to be stored inside the .class file too), not an instance of it.
So a single variable, with one address in memory(MyClass.myStaticField). These are not subject to garbage collection.

Instance variables(with no static or final - final is just a `const` for Class Variables) are stored inside the heap allocated to the object during runtime, not in the class file itself(you can have N instances, so no free optimization - Possibility of causing memory leaks via multiple unused instances? No because instances are subject to garbage collection)

More on variables:

If your variable stores a constant value, such as `static final int NUM_GEARS = 6`, the convention changes slightly, capitalizing every letter and separating subsequent words with the underscore character. By convention, the underscore character is never used elsewhere.

Note: If a primitive type or a string is defined as a constant and the value is known at compile time, the compiler replaces the constant name everywhere in the code with its value. This is called a compile-time constant. If the value of the constant in the outside world changes (for example, if it is legislated that pi actually should be 3.975), you will need to recompile any classes that use this constant to get the current value.

Local variables - are from a methods scope. That determination comes entirely from the location in which the variable is declared — which is between the opening and closing braces of a method.

Note: You can also refer to static fields with an object reference like `myBike.numberOfBicycles` but this is discouraged because it does not make it clear that they are class variables.

Parameters - You've already seen examples of parameters, both in the Bicycle class and in the main method of the "Hello World!" application. Recall that the signature for the main method is `public static void main(String[] args)`. Here, the args variable is the parameter to this method. The important thing to remember is that parameters are always classified as "variables" not "fields". This applies to other parameter-accepting constructs as well (such as constructors and exception handlers) that you'll learn about later in the tutorial.

**Important**: Not all combinations of instance and class variables and methods are allowed:
Instance methods can access instance variables and instance methods directly.
Instance methods can access class variables and class methods directly.
Class methods can access class variables and class methods directly.
Class methods cannot access instance variables or instance methods directly—they must use an object reference. Also, class methods cannot use the this keyword as there is no instance for this to refer to.

For more info and details: ["Understanding Class Members"](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/classvars.html)

---
